Bullet point summary of the papers linked by WPI:
Olson 2011 - AprilTag: 
* The design of the target is important for ease of recognition and reduction of errors.
* Their target design, designated by bits n and Hamming distance d (eg. a 6x6 grid with a Hamming distance 11 is called 36h11 ) is superior to other approaches because:
1) They pre-select the allowable images to reduce false positives using lexicodes, and speed up verification
2) These lexicodes are able to detect and correct error bits ~ d/2
* Their detection algorithm is optimized to (deep dive there)
* They can return the 6-degrees of freedom (x,y,x, pitch, roll, yaw) from the image if the camera is calibrated 

Wang and Olsen, 2016 - AprilTag 2:
The target design is the same as before.
They improved the detector algorithm based on user feedback.
They got rid of the ability to detect partially occluded targets, 
and improved the detection cabability in terms of distance and decimating (downsampling) the images.
The distance measurements also got more accurate, especially at greater detection distances due to an edge refinement step.  This was overall about 30% faster than previous version, but when you decimate the image the speed up is more like a factor of 4 or 5.  

Krogius, Haggenmiller and Olson, 2019 - AprilTag 3:
Made a more physically flexible target system, but still can use the older AprilTags targets.  New targets, however, can have physically larger bits (= having fewer cells) but still have more allowable tags and better Hamming dist.
Significant speed up in FPS by improving the detector code. The steps / improvements are:
1) Image decimation, so the later steps are faster.  Changed from box sampling to point sampling (better edges).  
2) Union-find - track values to avoid redundant calls, and reject connections too small to be tags
3) Fitting quadrilaterals - got around expensive trig (atan, sin, cos) calls w/o sacrificing accuracy  
4) Tag decoding - scaled down the matrix they had to solve a little
They also add a sharpening step for small tags (thereby improving distance).